if you and i are having a conversation
face to face our sense of
left and right will be incompatible
but our sense of north and south will be
exactly the same
which way is left and which way is right
is in this sense subjective
subjective doesn't mean unreal
subjective doesn't mean open to endless
debate
subjective doesn't even mean there are
two or three or
five different opinions about it that
are equally
valid the number one answer
i receive today defending
adults playing video games
is that the value or the enjoyment
of playing video games is
subjective right now there are
two different ways in which
in this video i'm going to argue this is
bad and misleading
and wrong these aren't the only two ways
in which this is bad and misleading and
wrong by the way guys
one is on the tiny scale of you
and i as individuals and the other is on
the larger scale
of a society and society might just be a
few dozen people
or we might be talking about millions of
people
all right will it make
you happy personally
if you can inject yourself with
testosterone
become stronger
and win an athletic competition let's
say it's wrestling
if you personally can use testosterone
and steroids and be stronger
and maybe more beautiful or more
physically impressive
and then you can win the wrestling
competition
nobody else is using
testosterone and steroids just you is
that good for you
is that good for your personal utility
for your well-being for your happiness
your benefit
it's not the only consideration we have
to scale it up
and ask what's better for this tiny
society
of maybe just a few dozen people who
actually compete
in this sports league who compete in
this wrestling league whatever it may be
all right is it good for them is it good
for us
as a group if instead of competing on
skill
people start competing on the basis
of who can take the most steroids
no even if it's good for you as an
individual when you just
scale it up to consider the few dozen
people you're
competing with and they're not your
enemies they're your colleagues
they're your contemporaries right it's
bad for everyone
including you why because when all of
your competitions start doing it
when everyone else is injecting
themselves with testosterone
and steroids now you've got to inject
yourself with
more and more and more in order to
compete you've got to push yourself up
to that limit
or maybe you're going to die just to
stay relevant just to stay
in the same league that they're in
all right beauty pageants
beauty competitions should you allow
plastic surgery what's the competition
supposed to be about is it supposed to
be about
who can get the most plastic surgery
if you allow the contestants to have
plastic surgery
they have a similar pattern we have a
similar problem but this
isn't the only level on which we can
scale up
this problem when you're looking at a
society of millions
who are you celebrating as the world
wrestling champion
the greatest cheater the greatest
drug abuser that's a problem for us all
not just the people in the competition
who are you celebrating as the beauty
pageant queen
the greatest science experiment
the woman who was willing to subject
herself to the surgeon's knife
and injecting all kinds of drugs that
are in their way comparable
to steroids what have you right
if you open that door if you allow that
these concepts of like good
happiness enjoyment utility right
they don't just apply in this
self-centered short-term way
self-centered short-term thinking
is evil you just thinking
about what benefits you what makes you
happy
right now whether it's using drugs or
getting plastic surgery or playing video
games
that is in brief
an evil way of thinking
you know what's good you know what's
better
not just thinking about yourself
thinking about your family thinking
about that
medium-sized unit the other people who
play in your league
thinking about the society of millions
not just thinking
short-term not just thinking about
what's going to make me happy today or
in the next two hours
but thinking about what kind of person i
aspire to become
over the next 10 years and then what
kind of work and what kind of recreation
is going to help me become that person
right this this
it doesn't take a genius to figure this
stuff out it really doesn't
i i don't even think it requires a
person of
average intelligence
but in our generation people have been
inculcated
with this notion that morality is
something imposed upon you
by authority figures like the church
the mosque and that you live
to rebel against and so
people don't rehearse don't practice
they become
profoundly unfamiliar with this type of
ever so simple ethical thinking
reasoning out for themselves why and in
what sense
playing video games is wrong
the distinction between subjective
and objective i've had to say to people
who
debated with me sincerely they were
really willing to
re-evaluate what they've been doing with
their lives in the past and the present
and looking into the future
so people came to me and talking on the
internet they're willing to consider the
option
of quitting video games now and forever
but it seems like the
thing they can't get over is this idea
that even if all of my arguments are
valid even if i have a good point they
can recognize it
they can recognize that this would make
them into a better person if they
stop playing video games and start doing
anything more productive with their time
they can't get over this
thought-terminating cliche
that after all it's all just
subjective all right the difference
between
left and right is subjective the
difference between good
and evil is subjective and i'll tell you
something
directly from experience i have used
cocaine
once in my life whether or not you
consider
the effects of cocaine pleasant or
unpleasant
even that is subjective i ca i can't
believe that anyone is stupid enough
to think that using cocaine makes them
happy i can't believe just the
chemical sensation in your body in your
brain i
can't believe people think that is
pleasant
or enjoyable or is in any way related to
happiness
but apparently i'm in a tiny tiny
minority of people
right and when i watch someone playing a
stupid repetitive video game where they
walk around and shoot people in the head
again and again and again i also i find
myself in a similar state of disbelief
subjectively i can't believe people
think this is enjoyable
people think this is happiness but they
do i'm evidently in a very small
minority who has this kind of detachment
where i can reevaluate these things
subjectively
okay the question of what is a great
work of art
is subjective that doesn't mean
there's no important difference between
a great work of art and a terrible one
between a successful film and an
unsuccessful one between a painting
that's a recognized masterpiece and a
painting that was a flop
fill in the blank yes yes these things
are subjective but what you have to
recognize is
that the whole world of important
decisions
you are going to make in your life is
within that subjective realm
we're not debating the speed of light
we're not debating the speed of sound
we're debating what kind of person
you want to be and what you're willing
to sacrifice
what you're willing to do to get there
it's all subjective
the whole question of a meaningful life
the whole
the whole question of whether you are a
hero or a villain
in your own imagination and in how
others
perceive you yes it's subjective
and there's always going to be a
disconnection between the subjective and
the objective that way
we can write out a chemical formula
for what cocaine is and we can chart out
the etiology step by step of its effects
on the brain its effects on the nervous
system and so on
but the subjective judgment
whether this is pleasure or pain
enjoyable or horrible
whether this is good and evil that's the
meaningful question
it's utterly subjective whether it's
good for me
right now thinking selfishly thinking
short term about just the next few hours
subjective
tremendously meaningful whether or not
it's good for my family
what's it gonna mean for my daughter if
i start using cocaine
just on the weekends oh it's not an
addiction it's not a habit it's just
once in a while
it's just on special occasions what's
that going to mean for my daughter for
my wife for whoever it is i have around
me
right what's it going to mean for my
team my league the few dozen people who
are my colleagues in contemporary
scale it up what's it gonna mean for
your society as a whole think it through
at every level
and don't just think short term
the distinction between subjective and
objective
this is child's play don't let this kind
of excuse
become for you a thought-terminating
cliche